# IGen: Scalable Data Generation for Robot Learning from Open-World Images

<div>

[https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.01773](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.01773)

[https://igen-project.github.io](http://127.0.0.1:5500/IGen/index.html)

💻 Code is Coming Soon

A framework for scalable robot data generation from open-world images

</div>

📖 Abstract

The rise of generalist robotic policies has created an exponential demand for large-scale training data. However, on-robot data collection is labor-intensive and often limited to specific environments. In contrast, open-world images capture a vast diversity of real-world scenes that naturally align with robotic manipulation tasks, offering a promising avenue for low-cost, large-scale robot data acquisition. Despite this potential, the lack of associated robot actions hinders the practical use of open-world images for robot learning, leaving this rich visual resource largely unexploited. To bridge this gap, we propose IGen, a framework that scalably generates realistic visual observations and executable actions from open-world images. IGen first converts unstructured 2D pixels into structured 3D scene representations suitable for scene understanding and manipulation. It then leverages the reasoning capabilities of vision-language models to transform scene-specific task instructions into high-level plans and generate low-level actions as SE(3) end-effector pose sequences.  From these poses, it synthesizes dynamic scene evolution and renders temporally coherent visual observations. Experiments validate the high quality of visuomotor data generated by IGen, and show that policies trained solely on IGen-synthesized data achieve performance comparable to those trained on real-world data. This highlights the potential of IGen to support scalable data generation from open-world images for generalist robotic policy training. Code for IGen will be made publicly available.

